Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in an earlier lecture we wrote a program to check our username and password.
But let's go back a step and consider the registration process.
If you've ever registered for any kind of online service you'll be familiar with the process that when
you enter in a user name a small program runs in the background to see if that username is available.
You were then prompted with a kind of yes or no success or failure message you say yes that username
is available.
Or know that user name is not available.
Well we are going to have a look at a similar process the check of a value is already in the list.
We can use the in keyword.
Let's look at the example First we create a list of user names that have already been registered up.
So I just put in a comment here names registered perfect and Karaite our list registered names.
And as always we open and close with square brackets and inside that we open and close with single quotes.
So let's start populating our names.
And as always Again a comment to separate out our values Frank.
Mary come to open and close brackets open closed single quotes Peter.
OK so our list is created.
Then we ask you to import the user name that they would like to use.
So the user name
equals the space that for a little bit of clarity in port
Please enter the user name.
You would like to use.
OK.
Now let's see close the brackets.
Next we check to see if the user name is already taken in a list of registered names.
So we have an IF block.
So I would just leave a comment here check to see if user name is already taken.
OK.
Perfect.
So if you if use a name which comes from our input if you use a name in registered names
don't forget your colon print sorry.
Use a name already taken.
And with this correct spelling mistake they're perfect.
Closes up.
So if you use a name already exists we print the sorry message.
You is not.
If the username is not taken then we give the user a success message so else present
this user name is available OK.
And let's say this man that S and see how it runs ok.
Please enter the username you would like to use.
Let's first start off of one that we know is already in our list.
Tony sorry username is already taken.
OK let's try it again.
Let's try.
The user name is available.
Okay perfect.
So there we have a simple username checker program and as we've seen the previous lectures you could
add on to this.
You could enter this program with by using the lowercase method so that when you use energy in Tony
with a capital T you're not getting to use names that will ultimately be the same.
I hope this letter was helpful and as always if any questions please do not hesitate to reach out and
ask me.
I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.